_adding posts 

https://docs.github.com/en/pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll/adding-content-to-your-github-pages-site-using-jekyll

On GitHub, navigate to your site's repository.

Navigate to the publishing source for your site. For more information, see "Configuring a publishing source for your GitHub Pages site."

Navigate to the _posts directory.

Create a new file called YYYY-MM-DD-NAME-OF-POST.md, replacing YYYY-MM-DD with the date of your post and NAME-OF-POST with the name of your post.

Add the following YAML frontmatter to the top of the file, including the post's title enclosed in quotation marks, the date and time for the post in YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss -0000 format, and as many categories as you want for your post.

layout: post
title: "POST-TITLE"
date: YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss -0000
categories: CATEGORY-1 CATEGORY-2
Below the frontmatter, add content for your post.

Click Commit changes...

In the "Commit message" field, type a short, meaningful commit message that describes the change you made to the file. You can attribute the commit to more than one author in the commit message. For more information, see "Creating a commit with multiple authors."

If you have more than one email address associated with your account on GitHub.com, click the email address drop-down menu and select the email address to use as the Git author email address. Only verified email addresses appear in this drop-down menu. If you enabled email address privacy, then <username>@users.noreply.github.com is the default commit author email address. For more information, see "Setting your commit email address."
Screenshot of a GitHub pull request showing a dropdown menu with options to choose the commit author email address. octocat@github.com is selected.

Below the commit message fields, decide whether to add your commit to the current branch or to a new branch. If your current branch is the default branch, you should choose to create a new branch for your commit and then create a pull request. For more information, see "Creating a pull request."
Screenshot of a GitHub pull request showing a radio button to commit directly to the main branch or to create a new branch. New branch is selected.

Click Commit changes or Propose changes.

Create a pull request for your proposed changes.

In the "Pull Requests" list, click the pull request you would like to merge.

Click Merge pull request. For more information, see "Merging a pull request."

If prompted, type a commit message, or accept the default message.

Click Confirm merge.

Optionally, delete the branch. For more information, see "Creating and deleting branches within your repository."

Your post should now be up on your site! If the base URL of your site is https://octocat.github.io, then your new post will be located at https://octocat.github.io/YYYY/MM/DD/TITLE.html.